# Infrastructure Damage Assessment in Gaza using Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 imagery 
## Abstract
Remote sensing can detect changes over time by comparing two images of the same location. High-resolution optical images, such as those from MAXAR, enable the use of advanced deep learning methods, like Convolutional Neural Networks, to predict building damage with over 95% accuracy [1]. It is important to note that all evaluations are objective and clearly marked as such. However, these optical images are not publicly available. In the case of Gaza, companies withhold data due to its implied wartime applications, such as tank detection and fortification creation [2]. High temporal damage assessments are crucial in wartime situations as they provide an accurate view of the scale of destruction. However, the lack of such assessments can obscure the current state of affairs. To address this issue, high temporal resolution data is required. The combination of medium-resolution Sentinel-1 SAR data and Sentinel-2 optical data can effectively close the temporal gap and enable the creation of high-temporal damage assessments in war-torn areas. Optical and SAR data are already used together to map damage after an earthquake in Indonesia [3]. Adriano et al. also used a combination of SAR and visual imagery to predict damage after the Tsunami in Sulawesi. Aimaiti et al. (2018) utilized Sentinel data to forecast the damage to buildings in Kiev before and after the onset of the Ukrainian war. However, Aimaiti et al., (2018) also acknowledged that further research was necessary to determine whether their methodology could be applied to regions with different building characteristics than their research area in Ukraine. This study aims to address this gap in the literature  by predicting the damage by looking at the change in reflection before and after the start of the Gaza conflict. This results in the main research question: 

 

** How accurate is the combination of Sar Sentinel 1 data and optical imagery Sentinel-2 data in predicting damage to buildings in the Gaza Strip? **
